Now if you decided to make an iteration, just how would you make that iteration?
I recommend leveraging the WBS, Work Breakdown Structure,
approach to refine your estimates.
Break each task into subtasks, and subtasks even into more subtasks.
Maximize the estimate per task maybe around 16 hours.
Find what's right for you.
Maybe it's 24, 32, maybe even 8.
But somewhere, 16, 24 seems to be a good range.
Remember the larger the estimate the more assumptions
that might be hidden within it.
Now provide key assumptions next to each task to help
explain why the estimate is what it is, maybe a little note possibly,
to help explain things if that's necessary.
And again, here are the ranges.
Maybe you might want to use 8 to 16, if you're not sure,
you know, you might go lower, go higher.
And then for each one, I like to apply a confidence factor for each task.
If I think a task is 20 hours, I might put next to it I'm 100% confident.
I understand what needs to be done in that task.
Now this is still ideal time thinking, we're not thinking about sick time.
We're thinking of ideal time and the confidence is more
of do you understand the requirements.
It's not the extraneous, peripheral activities,
sick time, vacation, other projects.
We're not thinking about anything that affects elapsed time.
We're looking at an ideal time of say 20 hours and now we're
considering how confident are we in that estimate?
Maybe I'm only 75% confident in the estimate.
Then I'm going to add 25% more hours to the base estimate,
to kind of compensate for that lack of confidence.
So a formula is quite easy.
It's 100% minus my confidence equals my IncreaseEstimate percentage.
And I'm going to show you a very detailed example on the
next slide to make sure we understand this.
And here's the WBS example.
Here's are spreadsheet.
So we're using this as one of our iterations and we're going
to put more detail on each of the tasks.
You can see in column 1 I have an Item number.
I just give it a number so we can refer to it easily, like 100.
40 or something like.
I give a description of the tasks, here are the estimated hours.
These are our ideal hours to do the project.
We believe as a team those are the hours.
Then we look at each one in a little more detail and come up
with what do we think our confidence factor is?
And we see some in there at 100%, 80%, 50%, we'll talk more about that later.
And lastly will be our confidence estimate.
We adjust our ideal estimate based on our confidence factor.
Now let's look at an example in more detail.
So, if you look at the row 100.
10 in light blue with orange arrows, my estimate is 4 hours for this task.
My confidence is 100%, so my confidence estimate is also 4.
If I look at another line, 100.
40, my estimate is 40 hours.
Notice the confidence factor there is 80%.
So the formula is 100% minus 80% equals 20%.
20% of 40 is 8 hours, so I simply add 8 more hours to my 40.
And you can see that the confidence estimate is now 48 hours,
very simple math, very simple to do.
So now I basically have a range,
between 40 and 48 hours for this particular task in ideal time.
The example below is the same.
On line 100.
50, my estimate is 40 hours.
I'm not very confident on this one, I'm thinking maybe 50%.
I may need to do more analysis.
I may need to do more research on what this task might take to do.
In the meantime, basically I add 50% more to the ideal estimate,
so now I go from 40 to 60 by adding 20 hours.
And the last line, the total line,
you can see based on the confidence factor and the confidence estimate,
I now have a range of hours.
So my ideal time for this project is ranging between 411 hours and 454 hours.
Again, ideal time range.
These are still ideal estimates based on requirements and the
confidence that we understand the requirements,
not the other unpredictable factors we talked about before,
such as the issues related to elapsed time.
This is still ideal time,
based on the confidence of the knowledge of the requirements.
So to summarize this section on team estimation,
let's talk about some best practices you could share with your team.
Always request estimates in ideal time, always.
You need to provide guidance to the person giving the estimate as follows.
You will only be working on this one thing.
Everything you need will be on hand.
There will be no interruptions.
Do not pad.
In other words, don't add any additional hours to any estimate.
Now given those ideal assumptions, what is your estimate of the task?
Believe it or not this takes a lot of training of your people.
It's very challenging for them to think of ideal
estimates because the world is not perfect.
But with enough coaching and enough trust and confidence, you will get there.
The result of course will be a clean, crisp, estimate.
And we'll see later in these sections what we do to that in order to
come up with our elapse time and our schedules.
And also, a reasonable size of estimate.
You know, what does this task take to do?
We want a good number in there that looks reasonable,
understandable, and actionable for every single task.
So at the end of iteration you're going to make a decision,
which will be is this estimate good enough for now?
Great, no need to go on further,
based on the context and the cycle of that estimating iteration
and who is the receiver of these estimates.
If you need more detail, then go deeper.
Do a bottom up estimate with a spreadsheet and drill
in and put more meat on the bones.
In the next section we're going to be talking about how to develop team capacity.